<!-- THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED BY werf docs COMMAND! DO NOT EDIT! -->

- Full application lifecycle management: build and publish images, deploy an application to Kubernetes, and remove unused images based on policies.
 - The description of all rules for building and deploying an application (that may have any number of components) is stored in a single Git repository along with the source code (Single Source Of Truth).
 - Build images using Dockerfiles.
 - Alternatively, werf provides a custom builder tool with support for custom syntax, Ansible, and incremental rebuilds based on Git history.
 - werf supports Helm 2-compatible charts and complex fault-tolerant deployment processes with logging, tracking, early error detection, and annotations to customize the tracking logic of specific resources.
 - werf is a CLI tool written in Go. It can be embedded into any existing CI/CD system to implement CI/CD for your application.
 - Cross-platform development: Linux-based containers can be run on Linux, macOS, and Windows.

## Coming Soon

- ~3-way-merge [#1616](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1616).~
- Developing applications locally with werf [#1940](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1940).
- Content-based tagging [#1184](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1184).
- Proven approaches and recipes for the most popular CI systems [#1617](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1617).
- Distributed builds with the shared Docker registry [#1614](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1614).
- Support for Helm 3 [#1606](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1606).
- (Kaniko-like) building in the userspace that does not require Docker daemon [#1618](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1618).

## Complete List of Features

### Building

- Effortlessly build as many images as you like in one project.
- Build images using Dockerfiles or Stapel builder instructions.
- Build images concurrently on a single host (using file locks).
- Build images distributedly (coming soon) [#1614](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1614).
- Advanced building process with Stapel:
  - Incremental rebuilds based on git history.
  - Build images with Ansible tasks or Shell scripts.
  - Share a common cache between builds using mounts.
  - Reduce image size by detaching source data and building tools.
- Build one image on top of another based on the same config.
- Debugging tools for inspecting the build process.
- Detailed output.

### Publishing

- Store images in one or multiple Docker repositories using the following naming patterns:
  - `IMAGES_REPO:[IMAGE_NAME-]TAG` using `monorepo` mode.
  - `IMAGES_REPO[/IMAGE_NAME]:TAG` using `multirepo` mode.
- Different image tagging strategies:
  - Tagging images by binding them to git tag, branch, or commit.
  - Content-based tagging (coming soon) [#1184](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1184).

### Deploying

- Deploy an application to Kubernetes and check if it has been deployed correctly.
  - Track the statuses of all application resources.
  - Control the readiness of resources.
  - Control the deployment process with annotations.
- Full visibility of both the deployment process and the final result.
  - Logging and error reporting.
  - Regular status reporting during the deployment phase.
  - Debug problems effortlessly without unnecessary kubectl invocations.
- Prompt CI pipeline failure in case of a problem (i.e. fail fast).
  - Instant detection of resource failures during the deployment process without having to wait for a timeout.
- Full compatibility with Helm 2.
- Ability to limit user permissions using RBAC definition when deploying an application (Tiller is compiled into werf and is run under the ID of the outside user that carries out the deployment).
- Parallel builds on a single host (using file locks).
- Distributed parallel deploys (coming soon) [#1620](https://github.com/flant/werf/issues/1620).
- Сontinuous delivery of images with permanent tags (e.g., when using a branch-based tagging strategy).

### Cleaning up

- Clean up local and Docker registry by enforcing customizable policies.
- Keep images that are being used in the Kubernetes cluster. werf scans the following kinds of objects: Pod, Deployment, ReplicaSet, StatefulSet, DaemonSet, Job, CronJob, ReplicationController.
