---
title: Overview
permalink: usage/cleanup/overview.html
---

When running, werf saves data both to the container registry and on the host.

In the case of the container registry, it deletes all outdated images based on the cleanup policies and the fact that Kubernetes still use that particular image.
In the case of the host, all data can be divided into two categories: cache – the temporary data generated by werf that are no longer needed, and local Docker stages – werf creates them if used without the container registry.

There are dedicated commands in werf for cleaning up the container registry and the host.
In the case of the container registry, werf only cleans up data related to the specific project, while the host cleanup covers all projects at once.

|                                                          | **Single project**                               | **All projects**      |
|----------------------------------------------------------| :----------------------------------------------: | :-------------------: |
| Cleaning up outdated data in the **container registry**  | `werf cleanup --repo REPO`                       | -                     |
| Complete cleanup of the **container registry**           | `werf purge --repo REPO`                         | -                     |
| Cleaning up outdated data on the **host**                | `werf host cleanup --project-name PROJECT`__*__  | `werf host cleanup`   |
| Complete cleanup of the **host**                         | `werf host purge --project-name PROJECT`__*__    | `werf host purge`     |

_, where __*__ indicates partial functionality._

It is worth noting that:
- You can safely **clean up the outdated data** at **any time**, manually or **automatically**, with no risk of losing critical data that are used in production.
- Moreover, werf can automatically clean up the outdated data on the host as part of any werf command's regular operation.
- werf isn't supposed to run the **complete data cleanup** automatically due to the possibility of losing data used in production. The total data cleanup should be run **manually** and by a knowledgeable person.
